# Hello Truck Requirements

## Overview
"Hello Truck" is a **Mobile** application that Allow the **Trader** to ship goods **Locally** by Land and truck his/her shipment in **Real-Time**, and Allow the **Truck-Captain** to see the shipments assigned to him/her So he/she can do the shipment and see his/her schedule, and Allow **Truck-Captain** -who doesn't belong to the company- to collaborate in doing shipments in case the company needed extra captains (for one time).
There will be a Dashboard -**Web** application- for the admin to manage the app.

## Actors
- Admin (Company Manager)
- SubAdmin (Branch Master)
- Trader
- Truck Captain ( Permanent / Freelancer(Temporary) )

## Functional Requirements
- ### Authentication
    - #### Captain
        - captain wants to register using
            - personal-info: [ mobile-number , username , password , accommodation(مكان الاقامة), permanent
-flag-]
            - the vehicle-info [ delivery`flag: true[small-car/bike/motor], false[truck]`, type, volume, weight, fuel_consumption_per_1kg, fuel_type , verified`flag` ].
        
                    truck-type: we have to create type-format based on the types we have.
        - captain wants to sign in using mobile-number/username and password.
        - captain wants to be able to reset-password.
        - captain wants to logout.
    - #### Trader
        - trader wants to register using [ mobile_number, email, password, ecommerce_admin`flag` ].
        - trader wants to sign in using mobile_number/email and password.
        - trader wants to be able to reset-password.
        - trader wants to logout.
        - trader wants to register as E-Commerce-admin using a secret key.
    - #### Admin
        - admin wants to sign in with a fixed account credentials.
        - admin wants to logout.
    - #### Sub-Admin
      - sub-admin wants to sign in using a fixed account credentials generated by admin.
      - sub-admin wants to logout.

- ### Trader
  - #### Trader Shipment Order Process
      - trader wants to select the shipment type: FTL/LTL or EUV.
      - trader wants to select the goods type: [ liquid, need_refrigeration , normal_packages(and defining if may-broke or not) ].
      - trader wants to define the goods volume and weight.
      - trader wants to select the destination.
      - trader wants to know how much is the shipping fees.
      - trader wants to confirm the shipping order by deliver the goods to the company branch with all the legal papers.
  - #### Trader Delivery Order Process
    - trader wants to select the delivery type: from-branch , to-branch , ecommerce-delivery.
    - trader wants to select the goods volume and weight.
    - trader wants to select teh destination.
    - trader wants to know the cost.
    - captain wants to edit the delivery status from pending to launched to received_goods to delivered_goods.
    - trader/admin wants to change the delivery status form delivered_goods to completed / completed-with-damage, or from pending to canceled.


- ### Dashboard (Management)
    - #### Branches Management
      - admin wants to add new branch (supported location).
      - admin wants to add sub-admins and assign them to branches.
    - #### Vehicle Tracking
        Admin has tow options to track vehicles:
        - _Mobile GPS_: requires internet connection on captain device(mobile).
        - _GPS Device_: works with no need to captain device(mobile) but requires linking with third party company (like MTN or Syriatel).
    - #### Trips Management
      - ##### Shipments
        - admin want to create new trip and assign a trucks for it, then assign orders to the trucks in the trip.
        Trip [ launch_Location, launch_datetime, arrival_datetime ].
        - admin wants to manage order loading in trucks, in other words: admin wants to define for each truck which order/orders will it carry (and define the percent of how-much from the order is being loaded in the truck (example: 30% of the order will be loaded in this truck) ).
          - admin wants to see the weights and volumes values being calculated while loading the trucks with the orders.
          - admin wants to have the option to make the system automatically load the trucks with the orders and then give him(the admin) the ability to edit.
        - admin wants to assign multiple trucks to the same trip.
        - admin wants to be able to launch the trip anytime (doesn't matter if the trucks are full or not).
        - admin wants to see the shipment status.
        - admin wants to be able to track the vehicle in real-time.
        - truck-captain wants to be able to edit the status from pending to launched.
        - admin wants to be able to change the status from launched to delivered to complete/complete-with-damage.
        - ###### Special Shipments
          - admin wants to be able to add special shipments (like special offers), like House-Transfer / Office-Transfer / Vehicle-Transfer / etc....
          - admin wants to specify the price for the special shipment(price for 1 truck and if the user needs more trucks the price will be doubled and so on), what kind of vehicles it will need?.
        - ###### Discounts
          - admin can create a discount for a specific trader with (discount_uuid, type[percent, fixed, full_free], valid`flag`, countdown`nullable`, validation_date`nullable`, percent`nullable`, fixed`nullable`).
      - ##### Delivery
        - admin wants to create new delivery order with 2 options:
          - the first option is to deliver the goods from the company branch to the specific user location, or vice versa (90% requires Van/medium-sized cars).
          - the second option is to deliver goods from location A to location B For an E-Commerce that has our external API.
        - admin wants to see the delivery status.
        - truck-captain wants to change the status from pending to launched.
        - admin/trader(ecommerce admin) wants to change the status from launched to complete/complete-with-damage.
    - #### Sub-Admins
      - admin wants to add new sub-admin (which is the branch master).
      - admin wants to remove sub-admins.
    - #### Audit Logs
      - admin wants to see every trip happened with filters by month/year/all.
      - admin wants to see every trip and who has launch it / confirmed the order.
      - admin wants to see every trip which captains has been doing it and how does it finished.
      - admin wants to see how much does the captain stayed in a specific branch before going back to the main branch or going on a new trip to another branch.
    - #### Statistics and Reports
      - admin wants to see how much trips does the company do this month/year/quarter-year.
      - admin wants to see how much does the company make this month/year/quarter (not net profit).
      - admin wants to see in a leaderboard the captains with their vehicle and how much complete trips they have did overall (2 leaderboards: one for deliveries and one for shipments), (admin can ask for a custom report from specific date till another specific date).
      - admin wants to see a report about each branch and how many trips gone out/ came in this month/year/(admin can ask for a custom-report).
      - admin wants to see a leaderboard for the traders and how much did each trader/user ordered overall.
      - admin wants to see a report about the non-permanent captains that did a trips for the company.


---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
---

## Random Ideas
- E-Commerce-Driven-Services
  - Adding Delivery to our system (small cars, bikes, motors, etc...)
  - External API from our application that makes the ecommerce-system to order shipment/delivery.
- Special Services: House/Office furniture transfer, Vehicles transfer, Caravan transfer.
- Transactions
- how will the transfer fee be calculated
- notifications
- 